In this lesson, we will consider a new asset that allows you to control the settings of sound classes.
It is called sound mix. There may be situations in the game in which some sounds should be louder and others quieter.
We can already control the volume using sound classes. Sound mix allows you to do
this more efficiently. You can create multiple sound mixes. In fact, it is a preset
for the current game situation: what settings (in particular the volume) should be in the sound classes,
and if the game situation has changed, we simply turn on another sound mix.
Let's look at an example. Create a new sound mix and name it sound mix default.
We open this asset. It has several categories of settings: an equalizer, we will not be interested in it.
The sound mix category contains parameters for the time the current settings are applied, and the main category that
interests us is called sound classes. This is an array. We will add those sound classes whose parameter
we want to change, for example, add the ambient sound class and change the volume adjuster parameter to it, set, for example, 0.2,
that is, we will make all sounds of this sound class a little quieter. This volume adjuster
is not a specific volume value, but a value by which we multiply the current volume value.
We will also make the sounds of charter quieter and, for example, add the sounds of weapons.
set volume adjuster to 0.7, save, go to the project settings, enter sound in the search box.
We can set the sound mix by default. Property is called default base sound mix.
We specify our sound mix default, that is, by default, our sound mix will affect the volume of all sound classes
that we added to the array. In our current project, this is already enough. For a test, let's see
how we can switch between different sound mixes. Create a new sound mix and name it fade out.
This sound mix will smoothly lead the sound of the master class to 0. Add the master class to the sound array.
Set the volume multiplier to 0, set property apply to children to true.
This means that this multiplier will also be applied to the child sound classes. Let's change the
fade in time parameter - the parameter is responsible for the time for which this sound mix will be applied.
and additionally set fade out time also to 5 - this parameter is inverse, it is responsible
for the time during which the mix will be canceled. In the playercontroller, add the event of pressing
the 1 key. When this key is pressed, we will apply sound mix fade out.
This is done using a function called push sound mix modifier. Give it sound mix fade out.
This function is located in the gameplay statics library, so it will not be difficult to call it from the code,
and when you press the 2 key, we will remove this sound mix. The function is called pop sound mix modifier.
For the rifle, we will add more cartridges so that our shooting is not interrupted for reloading.
We start the game.
I pressed 1 on the keyboard and the sound faded away. Let's hit the deuce.
Thus, using the sound mix, we can control the settings of the sound classes.
I remove the logic from the blueprint, we did it exclusively for the test. In our project, one sound mix will be enough,
in which we can configure, if necessary, various parameters of the sound classes.